[Music]
if you're a terrifying me you have
around 2,000 varieties of cheese in this
world to be happy about yes a Terra file
is a smart word for a cheese lover but
not each and every one of us can explain
what makes Parmesan so crazy expensive
let's update our knowledge on the
subject together Parmesan fans will
agree that it's totally worth its price
of eleven dollars per pound but a
skeptic will ask a reasonable question
is it made of gold or unicorn tears to
justify this price well it comes in at
over a thousand dollars per wheel for a
different reason it takes at least one
year for it to mature and you need 131
gallons of milk to produce it if that
sounds doable remember you can't just
start making it in your backyard the
real thing only comes from a small
restricted area in the north of Italy in
the region of emilia romagna even the
official name of this expensive cheese
parmigiano-reggiano translates from
italian as from the cities of Parma and
Reggio Emilia parmesan was first
mentioned in historical documents as
early as the 13th and 14th century
famous writer Boccaccio mentioned a
mountain all of grated Parmesan cheese
in his Decameron in 1348 it is believed
it was first invented by monks who used
exactly the same ingredients that are
still used today
cow milk saw and rented this is what's
used in the 329 dairies in the world
that have a license to produce the real
parmigiano-reggiano each and every one
of them is located in the provinces of
Parma Medina and Mantua why is it so
critically important that Parmesan is
made there the answer is in the good
bacteria that only live in the grass in
this area of the world the whole
manufacturing process is actually about
keeping these bacteria alive and
transferring them safely from grass to
hay and then to the cows that will later
give milk rich in those bacteria these
bacteria will ferment the milk
components
only if they are preserved in a we love
parmigiana this gives the iconic cheese
its unique aroma flavor and taste the
manufacturers mix whole milk from the
morning milking with naturally skimmed
milk from the previous evenings milking
in copper batts they then add weigh and
calf rennet and the temperature rises
giving birth to enzymes and giving the
milk a yogurt like texture the milk is
split into curds the excess water is
removed and the temperature is raised
from 100 degrees Fahrenheit to 131
degrees Fahrenheit then they let them
mixture settle for 45 minutes it's
important to keep the temperature high
to kill all the bad bacteria that might
have gotten in the product of all these
steps is a massive piece of cheese to be
weighing in at 220 pounds it's good for
two cheese wheels so the manufacturers
split it carefully into two huge pieces
with linen cloth that is replaced every
two hours until the evening that she's
then moves into a round form of
stainless steel this is the stencil that
will give the cheese at shape and dots
to form the logo of parmigiano-reggiano
it is a sign of true parmesan each wheel
also gets its own ID on a plaque made of
milk protein with information on its
origin and time of production the
stencil stays on for four days and then
the cheese moves to a brine bath for the
next 20 days to absorb saw there it gets
the rind that serves as a protective
barrier afterward the parmesan moves to
a wooden shelf where it stays for at
least a year before its mature enough to
be sold it is regulated by law that it
can't leave the manufacturer before 12
months pass by then the cone soars EO
delle formaggio parmigiano-reggiano
consisting of cheese experts and master
graders test the cheese and decide if
it's ready to go as with any product
that gets better with time the more
mature it is the more expensive it is
Parmesan varieties by maturity are
vecchio old straw vecchio extra or very
old tea pecky owe four to five years and
Vonnie young as with anything exclusive
and expensive there have been numerous
attempts to make fake
parmigiano-reggiano Italy is of course
interested in keeping it legal and to
themselves
since the parmesan business gives them
an impressive 2.5 billion dollars a year
and this cheese is one of its biggest
export if you ever decide to seek a loan
from credit Oh Emiliano Bank in the
Emilia Romagna region remember that you
can use parmesan as collateral you will
be charged a 3 to 5 percent interest
rate and a fee to ensure that your
cheese will mature as it should in two
years Italy has been fighting the
copycats for years and
parmigiano-reggiano is protected by EU
laws the problem is while you can't call
any cheese parmigiano Reggiano parmesan
is not a trademark it's widely faked
outside the EU and in countries with no
bilateral agreement with Italy to
recognize the real thing remember to
look for the official logo and
manufacturing information imprinted on
the wheel if you're a fan of
parmigiano-reggiano and it's cheesy
relatives here's a selection of fun
cheese facts just for you according to
the Center for retail research in the UK
cheese is the most stolen food on the
planet around 4% of all cheese produced
ends up in the hands of shoplifters you
won't be so surprised it's so lucrative
when you know the price for parmesan and
other luxurious and even not so
luxurious types of Jesus the largest
block of cheese ever delivered to the
White House was a gift to President
Andrew Jackson from dairy farmer Colonel
Thompson s Meacham of Sandy Creek New
York in 1835 the popular president
received a giant cheese weighing 1,400
pounds it took 10,000 guests to hours to
finish it President Obama honored that
open house occasion during his second
term and celebrated big block of cheese
day
no giant cheese was involved but it was
an opportunity for people to ask White
House officials cabinet members and
lawmakers different questions on social
media platforms
there is a power station in the French
Alps that works on Buford's cheese the
electricity maid is enough for 1500
people whey is an unnecessary byproduct
of Buford manufacturing bacteria are
added to it to transform it into a
biogas a mixture of methane and carbon
dioxide the way becomes fuel which moves
through an engine heating water to
almost boiling to generate about 2.8
million kilowatts per year cheese can be
addictive because of the chasm orphans
contained in cow liver in 2018 the
University of Michigan research team
engaged 500 participants in an
experiment to analyze food cravings they
concluded that cheese was the most
addictive of all foods the most
expensive cheese in the world is not
parmigiano-reggiano its pule cheese from
the milk of Balkan donkeys in Serbia it
costs $600 per pound because there are
just about 100 female Balkan donkeys
left loose cheese is also pretty
expensive at about $420 per pound if you
ever decide to milk a moose it'll take
you two hours and you won't be allowed
to utter a word during the process
cheese was mentioned in Homer's Odyssey
dating back to the late 8th century BCE
the Cyclops produced and stored goat's
milk cheese on cheese racks in his cave
it is believed that cheese was
discovered by a lucky accident people
were transporting milk in the stomach
linings of animals and it got all Kirti
scientists from Poland found ancient
cheese strainers and believed cheese was
invented at least 7,500 years ago that's
before written language you can also
find murals of cheese making and
Egyptian tombs from 4000 years ago
cheese wheels as an advanced form of
cheese were invented for convenience by
European cheese makers it was indeed
easier to roll cheese than the carrion
and it helped produce sturdier cheese
that wouldn't over ripen
in 2016 the journal Nature shared the
results of a study by an international
group of researchers that claimed eating
cheese can help you live longer
Roquefort blue cheese is rich in sperm
adine which is good for your heart
health and blood pressure nutritionist
charlotte sterling read commented and
said that cheese can indeed be great for
your health when taken in moderation and
extra mature cheese can help you even
more cheese can help you sleep better
this was the conclusion of a 2005 study
by the british cheese board it really
exists they tested 200 volunteers who
had a slice of cheese 30 minutes before
bed every day for a week 72% of them had
really deep sound sleep with no
nightmares
it must be thanks to tryptophan an amino
acid contained in cheese the fun part of
this research was that it also claimed
that different cheese types can give you
different kinds of drinks for instance
cheddar can make you see celebrities red
Leicester will awaken childhood memories
Stilton causes the craziest dreams and
Cheshire cheese makes you go dreamless
so I guess you can say sweet dreams are
made of cheese Who am I to disagree
which of these cheese facts surprised
you the most sound it out in the
comments section below don't forget to
give this video a like share with your
friends and click subscribe to stay on
the bright side of life
[Music]
you